docs/radios/radios.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Radios

FREE-WILi has two radios integrate to help develop, validate and test radio systems.

The different FREE-WILi devices have different radios to support different applications. 

<!-- | **Device** 	|                     **Description**                     	            |    **Notes**   	|
|:----------:	|:------------------------------------------------------------------:	|:--------------:	|
|    black   	|                     [CC1101 Sub GHZ](/radios/black-radio-cc1101)      |                	|
|     red    	|              CC1352P7  Sub GHZ and 2.4 Ghz              	            | In development 	|
|   purple   	| CC2662 2.4Ghz for wireless battery management (TI wbms) 	            | In development 	| -->

| **Device** 	|                     **Description**                     	            |    **Notes**   	|
|:----------:	|:------------------------------------------------------------------:	|:--------------:	|
|    black   	|   [CC1101 Sub GHZ](/radios/black-radio-cc1101/)                       |                	|
|     red    	|                                                          	            | In development 	|
|   purple   	|                                                                       | In development 	|

Commit message:

added sidebar_label for all md pages for SEO purpose

docs/radios/radios.md, after:

---
title: FREE-WILi Radios - CC1101 Overview
description: Learn about the integrated radios in FREE-WILi devices, including the CC1101 for Sub-GHz and upcoming radios for diverse wireless applications.
keywords: [FREE-WILi, CC1101, radios, Sub-GHz,radio systems, radio development, radio testing]
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Radios
---

# Radios

FREE-WILi has two radios integrate to help develop, validate and test radio systems.

The different FREE-WILi devices have different radios to support different applications. 

<!-- | **Device** 	|                     **Description**                     	            |    **Notes**   	|
|:----------:	|:------------------------------------------------------------------:	|:--------------:	|
|    black   	|                     [CC1101 Sub GHZ](/radios/black-radio-cc1101)      |                	|
|     red    	|              CC1352P7  Sub GHZ and 2.4 Ghz              	            | In development 	|
|   purple   	| CC2662 2.4Ghz for wireless battery management (TI wbms) 	            | In development 	| -->

| **Device** 	|                     **Description**                     	            |    **Notes**   	|
|:----------:	|:------------------------------------------------------------------:	|:--------------:	|
|    black   	|   [CC1101 Sub GHZ](/radios/black-radio-cc1101/)                       |                	|
|     red    	|                                                          	            | In development 	|
|   purple   	|                                                                       | In development 	|
