docs/io-app/file-system-menu.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# File System Menu

The File System Menu allows you to interact with the file menu (shown below).

| **Command**              	| **Description**                                	| **Notes** 	|
|--------------------------	|------------------------------------------------	|-----------	|
| Change Directory         	| Changes the current directory                  	|           	|
| Create Directory         	| Creates a directory in the current directory   	|           	|
| Remove File or Directory 	|                                                	|           	|
| Download File            	| Send a file from the host to FREE-WILi device 	|           	|
| Upload File              	| Copy a file from FREE-WILi to host device     	|           	|
| Print File               	| Display file to the serial terminal            	|           	|
| Create Blank File        	| Creates an empty file                          	|           	|
| Rename File or Directory 	|                                                	|           	|
| Append to File           	|                                                	|           	|

<div class="text--center">

<figure>

![File System Menu](../assets/file-system-menu.jpg "File System Menu")
<figcaption></figcaption>
</figure>
</div>

Commit message:

added sidebar_label for all md pages for SEO purpose

docs/io-app/file-system-menu.md, after:

---
title: File System Menu for FREE-WILi - Manage and Interact with Files
description: Learn how to use the File System Menu on FREE-WILi to manage directories and files. Discover commands for changing directories, creating and removing files, uploading, downloading, and more. Access detailed file management functionalities.
keywords: [FREE-WILi File System Menu, file management commands, create directory, remove file, download file, upload file, print file, rename file, append to file]
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: File System Menu
---

# File System Menu

The File System Menu allows you to interact with the file menu (shown below).

| **Command**              	| **Description**                                	| **Notes** 	|
|--------------------------	|------------------------------------------------	|-----------	|
| Change Directory         	| Changes the current directory                  	|           	|
| Create Directory         	| Creates a directory in the current directory   	|           	|
| Remove File or Directory 	|                                                	|           	|
| Download File            	| Send a file from the host to FREE-WILi device 	|           	|
| Upload File              	| Copy a file from FREE-WILi to host device     	|           	|
| Print File               	| Display file to the serial terminal            	|           	|
| Create Blank File        	| Creates an empty file                          	|           	|
| Rename File or Directory 	|                                                	|           	|
| Append to File           	|                                                	|           	|

<div class="text--center">

<figure>

![File System Menu](../assets/file-system-menu.jpg "File System Menu")
<figcaption></figcaption>
</figure>
</div>
