docs/gui-screen-buttons-and-lights/accelerometer.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Accelerometer

FREE-WILi includes an accelerometer part number LIS3DH from ST microelectronics. The Accel sensor data is viewable from the serial menu and is usable from the API. The mounting is such that the Z direction points up from the screen and the X axis points towards the IO Connector.

<div class="text--center">

<figure>

![Stream Accel data from the display processor menu](../assets/stream-accel-data.png "Stream Accel data from the display processor menu")
<figcaption>Stream Accel data from the display processor menu.</figcaption>
</figure>
</div>

import Card from '@site/src/components/Card'; 

<Card 
  title="LIS3DH - STMicroelectronics"
  description="STMicroelectronics"
  link="https://www.st.com/en/mems-and-sensors/lis3dh.html" 
  imageUrl="https://www.st.com/etc/clientlibs/st-site/media/app/images/favicon-32.png"
/>

<br/>

<div class="text--center">

<figure>

![X Axis points to the IO Connector and Y points to the buttons, Z point out of the screen](../assets/acc-points.png "X Axis points to the IO Connector and Y points to the buttons, Z point out of the screen")
<figcaption>X Axis points to the IO Connector and Y points to the buttons, Z point out of the screen.</figcaption>
</figure>
</div>

Commit message:

added sidebar_label for all md pages for SEO purpose

docs/gui-screen-buttons-and-lights/accelerometer.md, after:

---
title: FREE-WILi Accelerometer - LIS3DH Sensor Data and API Integration
description: Explore the FREE-WILi accelerometer (LIS3DH) with data viewable from the serial menu and API. Understand axis orientation and access sensor details.
keywords: [FREE-WILi, accelerometer, LIS3DH, ST Microelectronics, sensor data, API integration, axis orientation, serial menu, accelerometer data]
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Accelerometer
---

# Accelerometer

FREE-WILi includes an accelerometer part number LIS3DH from ST microelectronics. The Accel sensor data is viewable from the serial menu and is usable from the API. The mounting is such that the Z direction points up from the screen and the X axis points towards the IO Connector.

<div class="text--center">

<figure>

![Stream Accel data from the display processor menu](../assets/stream-accel-data.png "Stream Accel data from the display processor menu")
<figcaption>Stream Accel data from the display processor menu.</figcaption>
</figure>
</div>

import Card from '@site/src/components/Card'; 

<Card 
  title="LIS3DH - STMicroelectronics"
  description="STMicroelectronics"
  link="https://www.st.com/en/mems-and-sensors/lis3dh.html" 
  imageUrl="https://www.st.com/etc/clientlibs/st-site/media/app/images/favicon-32.png"
/>

<br/>

<div class="text--center">

<figure>

![X Axis points to the IO Connector and Y points to the buttons, Z point out of the screen](../assets/acc-points.png "X Axis points to the IO Connector and Y points to the buttons, Z point out of the screen")
<figcaption>X Axis points to the IO Connector and Y points to the buttons, Z point out of the screen.</figcaption>
</figure>
</div>
